       Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                    for the

   Automated Targeting System –
TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture
           Phase II
               DHS/CBP/PIA-006(d)
                September 16, 2014
                    Contact Point
                    David Dodson
            Director, Passenger Targeting
    Office of Intelligence and Investigative Liaison
         U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                      (202) 344-1150
                 Reviewing Official
                 Karen L. Neuman
               Chief Privacy Officer
          Department of Homeland Security
                  (202) 343-1717
                                                                        Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                         U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                           ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                    Page 1



Abstract
        The Automated Targeting System (ATS) is a decision support tool that compares
traveler, cargo, and conveyance information against law enforcement, intelligence, and other
enforcement data using risk-based targeting scenarios and assessments. U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (CBP) is publishing this Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) update to describe
Phase II for the Common Operating Picture (COP) program, which enhances information sharing
about watchlisted travelers and their traveling companions between DHS components. CBP and
the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) are adding new information to the COP to
further promote information sharing between CBP and TSA during Phase II. CBP will publish
additional updates to this PIA prior to deployment of any subsequent phases to the COP
program.

Overview
       The Department of Homeland Security (DHS)/CBP operates ATS to facilitate legitimate
trade and travel while managing the shared threat to the homeland posed by certain people or
cargo entering or exiting the United States. ATS supports CBP in identifying individuals and
cargo that may require additional scrutiny across various transportation networks using the
following functionalities:1
       Comparison: ATS compares information about travelers and cargo arriving in, transiting
        through, or exiting the country, against law enforcement and intelligence databases. For
        example, ATS compares information about individuals (identified as passengers,
        travelers, crewmembers, or persons appearing on documents supporting the movement of
        cargo) against the Terrorist Screening Database (TSDB)2 as well as data concerning
        outstanding wants and warrants.
       Rules: ATS compares existing information about individuals and cargo entering and
        exiting the country with patterns identified as requiring additional scrutiny. The patterns
        are based on CBP officer experience, trend analysis of suspicious activity, law
        enforcement cases, and raw intelligence.
       Federated Query: ATS allows users to search data across many different databases and
        systems to provide a consolidated view of data about a person or entity.



1
  For a complete overview of ATS, its modules, and the associated privacy risks, see DHS/CBP/PIA-006(b)
Automated Targeting System (ATS) Update, available at,
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/privacy/privacy_pia_cbp_ats006b.pdf.
2
  ATS ingests the TSDB via the DHS Watchlisting Service (WLS). Please see DHS/ALL/PIA-027 Watchlist
Service and subsequent updates for a full description of the WLS, available at
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/privacy/privacy_pia_dhswide_wls_update027(b).pdf.
                                                                         Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                          U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                            ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                     Page 2


      Information received from TSA as part of the COP program is stored in ATS-Passenger
(ATS-P).
        Common Operating Picture Program Phase I
        DHS continuously strives to improve traveler vetting and information sharing among
DHS components, such as TSA and CBP, that have overlapping vetting authorities and
operations, including TSA and CBP. Both components review information about airline
passengers to determine whether the passengers may access U.S. transportation networks or
require additional scrutiny when traveling to, from, within, or over the United States. Both TSA
and CBP also review information about airline passengers traveling on U.S. aircraft operators
that are required to have a “full [security] program” under the Transportation Aircraft Operator
Security Rule3 (“covered U.S. aircraft operators”).
        To determine which passengers may warrant additional scrutiny, TSA and CBP identify
passengers who appear on the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Do Not Board
List (DNBL), or the No Fly and Selectee subsets of the Terrorist Screening Center (TSC) TSDB
(hereinafter referred to as “watchlisted passengers”). Phase I of the COP program focused on the
reconciliation of vetting discrepancies among TSA and CBP-identified watchlisted passengers
and their traveling companions. TSA provided CBP with information about persons identified as
watchlisted passengers through its normal vetting procedures through TSA-WebEOC,4 TSA’s
operations center incident management system during the first phase of the COP. CBP stored the
information in ATS-P and displayed the TSA-identified watchlisted passengers alongside CBP-
identified watchlisted passengers on a read-only common dashboard display at CBP’s National
Targeting Center (NTC) and TSA’s operations center. This display enabled CBP and TSA to
quickly identify and resolve discrepancies in vetting.
       Phase I of the COP program successfully resolved vetting inconsistencies of watchlisted
passengers. However, TSA and CBP determined that an accurate and complete picture of all
potential threats (including but not limited to the watchlisted passengers) in the air domain
remains incomplete. Due to the success of resolving vetting inconsistencies in Phase I, TSA and
CBP will expand the amount of passenger information shared via the COP dashboard to enhance
the overall picture of the air domain security. With Phase II, the COP will continue to show TSA
and CBP-identified passengers that appear on the initial watchlists, as well as “Inhibited
Travelers”:

3
  49 C.F.R. § 1544.101 (2014), available at, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CFR-2010-title49-vol9/pdf/CFR-2010-
title49-vol9-sec1544-101.pdf.
4
  TSA uses WebEOC to process and disseminate information related to transportation security incidents or
individuals who violate, or are suspected of violating transportation security laws, regulations, policies, or
procedures. For more detailed information on the WebEOC system, please see DHS/TSA/PIA-029 – Operations
Center Incident Management System PIA, available at
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/privacy/privacy_pia_tsa_ocims_update.pdf.
                                                                      Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                       U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                         ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                  Page 3


               passengers who are confirmed or possible matches to the watchlists on
                international flights of covered U.S. aircraft operators;
               passengers on domestic flights who are confirmed matches to the DNBL and
                TSDB watchlists;
               passengers who possess certain derogatory holdings that warrant enhanced
                scrutiny; and
               travelers with a high probability of being denied boarding by an aircraft operator
                on a carrier bound for or departing the United States. These travelers and their
                traveling companions are collectively referred to as “Inhibited Passengers.”
        CBP and TSA created the COP to promote information sharing between the two
components and to provide a single unclassified location in which all identified Inhibited
Passenger travel is displayed to both components. The expansion of the COP in Phase II
mitigates this security gap (the risk of an incomplete or inaccurate picture of all potential threats
in the air domain) and aligns with the aviation security and counterterrorism missions of both
components supporting the COP program’s original intent.
        Accordingly, the COP program’s expanded purposes include:
        1. To ensure consistent vetting of and refine each component’s ability to positively
           identify individuals matched to the CDC DNBL or the No Fly and Selectee subsets of
           the TSDB who fly to, from, through, or over the United States or on international
           flights that are operated by covered U.S. aircraft operators;
        2. To increase the operational awareness of both components concerning travelers who
           may require additional scrutiny prior to traveling or pose a risk to aircraft safety or to
           national security; and
        3. To allow TSA and CBP to coordinate responses.


Reason for the PIA Update
        This PIA was last updated on January 31, 2014. DHS/CBP is further updating the PIA to
notify the public that the COP program is transitioning from Phase I to Phase II. This change
describes the additional data elements shared with the COP that provides both components with
increased operational awareness of identified Inhibited Passenger travel.

Privacy Impact Analysis
In each of the below sections consider how the system has changed and what impact it has on the below fair
information principles. In some cases there may be no changes and indicate as such.
                                                                         Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                          U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                            ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                     Page 4


        Authorities and Other Requirements
       The legal authorities to operate the COP have not changed with the implementation of
Phase II.
        TSA collects and maintains the information it is providing to CBP as part of its
transportation security mission. CBP has a mission-need to receive certain domestic traveler
information to obtain a more comprehensive awareness and understanding of those travel
patterns which, in turn, strengthen CBP’s inbound and outbound activities in support of its
border security mission as set forth in Title IV of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 and related
authorities.
        In Phase II, TSA shares information of identified possible and confirmed matches of
international travelers and confirmed matches of domestic travelers to the DNBL and TSDB
watchlists through TSA-WebEOC pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act.5
Information developed and provided by TSA from WebEOC is covered under DHS/TSA-019
Secure Flight Records System of Records Notice (SORN).6 Confirmed matches to the DNBL
and TSDB watchlists for domestic flights are displayed in the dashboard (which can be viewed
by TSA and CBP). TSA may disclose this information to CBP to advance CBP’s mission-
related responsibilities under subsection (b)(1) of the Privacy Act. The DHS/CBP-006 ATS
SORN covers all information received from TSA. Moreover, all information provided by CBP
to the COP is covered by the DHS/CBP-006 ATS SORN.7
       The authority to collect Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA)8 application
information and make eligibility determinations is authorized under Section 711 of the
Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007.9 The authority to collect
information on visa revocations and lost and stolen passports is granted under the Enhanced
Border Security and Visa Reform Act of 2002.10
        Characterization of the Information
         In Phase II of the COP, the TSA WebEOC system pushes the following data elements to
ATS-P regarding all travelers who are confirmed or possible matches for certain international
flights, and confirmed matches for domestic flights to the DNBL and TSDB watchlists:


5
  Pub. L. 107-71 (115 Stat. 597, 2001, codified at 49 U.S.C. § 114(f); 49 U.S.C. § 44903; 49 U.S.C. 44909).
6
  DHS/TSA-019 Secure Flight Records SORN, 78 FR 55270 (September 10, 2013), available at
http://www.dhs.gov/system-records-notices-sorns.
7
  DHS/CBP-006 Automated Targeting System SORN, 77 FR 30297 (May 22, 2012), available at
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2012-05-22/html/2012-12396.htm.
8
  For additional information about the ESTA process, please see DHS/CBP/PIA-007 Electronic System for Travel
Authorization, and subsequent updates, available at http://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhscbppia-007c-electronic-
system-travel-authorization.
9
  Pub. L. 110-53, codified at 8 U.S.C. § 1187(a)(11), (h)(3).
10
   Pub. L. 107-173, 116 Stat. 543.
                                                                  Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                     ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                              Page 5


              Biographic information (first name, last name, date of birth);
              Itinerary;
              Match type;
              Comments/remarks;
              TSC-ID; and
              Status (awaiting check-in, denied boarding, etc.)
        Similarly, CBP populates the COP common dashboard, viewable by CBP and TSA, with
the following data elements already retained in ATS-P including:
              Travelers whose visa has been denied or revoked;
              Travelers who match a lookout for a lost or stolen passport;
              Travelers whose ESTA application has been denied; and
              TSA and CBP -generated rule hit data.
        In Phase II of the COP program, TSA continues to push the WebEOC information to
ATS, which is displayed on the common dashboard developed in ATS-P. In Phase I, TSA
shared the biographic, itinerary, and status information already collected from passengers, their
traveling companions, and air carriers. In Phase I, CBP only received information on individuals
who were confirmed matches to the watchlists on flights involving a nexus to certain
international travel. In Phase II, CBP receives information from TSA about DNBL and TSDB
possible and confirmed matches for individuals on international flights of covered U.S. aircraft
operators. TSA also sends CBP the confirmed matches on domestic flights operating within the
United States, consistent with CBP’s mission.
       Phase II of the COP also introduces additional datasets pushed by CBP to the COP
dashboard. CBP now displays visa denials and revocations, lost or stolen passport information,
and ESTA denial data on the COP dashboard, viewable by TSA. These expanded datasets give
TSA advanced awareness about travelers who will likely be denied boarding. Thus, TSA
reduces time spent vetting travelers that are unlikely to travel by providing this information to
TSA through the COP.
      Confirmed Matches of Domestic and Confirmed and Possible Matches on International
Passenger Data
        The COP offered limited utility for users in Phase I because only individuals on certain
international flights were displayed on the COP dashboard. COP users could not perform an
accurate, real-time assessment of all identified threats to aviation, U.S. interests, or national
security without confirmed DNBL and TSDB matches of passengers on domestic flights and
                                                                            Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                             U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                               ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                        Page 6


possible and confirmed matches of travelers on international flights that are operated by covered
U.S. aircraft operators. Phase II introduces confirmed watchlist matches of individuals traveling
within domestic airspace and possible and confirmed matches of travelers on international flights
that are operated by covered U.S. aircraft operators in order to maximize the effectiveness of the
COP as a visualization tool. Adding these matches to the COP provides operational awareness
across the entire air spectrum further improving cross-component passenger vetting capabilities.
         Data Displayed Through ATS-P
       Currently, ATS-P is used to vet non-immigrant and immigrant visa applications for the
Department of State (State). State sends online visa application data to ATS-P for pre-
adjudication investigative vetting. ATS-P vets the visa application and provides a response to
State’s Consular Consolidated Database (CCD)11 indicating whether or not derogatory
information was identified by DHS about the individual. With the implementation of Phase II of
the COP program, all confirmed visa denial and revocation records will be displayed on the COP
dashboard from ATS-P.
        ATS-P also vets ESTA applicants.12 Individuals submit their biographical information
and answer eligibility questions when completing an ESTA application. After vetting the
information against selected security and law enforcement databases for terrorists or threats to
aviation and border security, CBP makes a determination about the applicant’s eligibility to
travel to the U.S. ATS-P retains a copy of ESTA application data to identify potential high-risk
ESTA applicants. An individual’s ESTA application is denied if the vetting process identifies
derogatory data that prohibits the issuance of a travel authorization. The denied ESTA record is
then displayed on the COP dashboard.
        ATS-P receives lost and stolen passport lookout information from State and Interpol via
        13
TECS.      The record will be displayed on the COP dashboard if any inbound or outbound
international traveler with a passport matches against a lost or stolen passport lookout.
        Prior to the development of the COP, CBP shared information about travelers with a high
likelihood of being denied boarding14 with TSA through an automated process in ATS that

11
   For more information on State Department’s Consular Consolidated Database (CCD) please see the CCD PIA,
available at, http://foia.state.gov/_docs/PIA/ConsularConsolidatedDatabase_CCD.pdf, and the following associated
SORNs: Overseas Citizens Services Records (STATE-05); Passport Records (STATE-26); and Visa Records
(STATE-39), available at, http://foia.state.gov/Learn/SORN.aspx#1.
12
   For additional information about the ESTA process, please see DHS/CBP/PIA-007 Electronic System for Travel
Authorization, and subsequent updates, available at http://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhscbppia-007c-electronic-
system-travel-authorization.
13
   DHS/CBP/PIA-009 TECS System: CBP Primary and Secondary Processing, available at
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/privacy/privacy-pia-cbp-tecs-sar-update.pdf; and DHS/CBP-011 U.S. Customs
and Border Protection TECS SORN, 73 FR 77778 (December 19, 2008), available at
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2008-12-19/html/E8-29807.htm.
14
   Travelers have a high likelihood of being denied boarding by an aircraft operator on an aircraft destined for the
                                                                           Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                            U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                              ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                       Page 7


generated an email to TSA. By including this information in the COP, both TSA and CBP are
now able to visualize the information and TSA receives advance notice of passengers likely to be
denied boarding by an aircraft operator on an aircraft. As a result, TSA minimizes the time for
vetting passengers who are unlikely to travel and can instead allocate resources on larger
unknown traveling populations.
        TSA and CBP-Generated Rule Hit Data
        The purpose of TSA’s Secure Flight program is to screen individuals before they access
airport sterile areas or board aircraft. This screening has generally been designed to identify and
prevent known or suspected terrorists or other individuals from gaining access to airports and
airplanes where they may jeopardize the lives of passengers and others. Generally, the Secure
Flight program will compare passenger and non-traveler information to the No Fly and Selectee
List components of the TSDB, which are currently used for the pre-flight passenger watch list
matching conducted by aircraft operators. However, as recommended in the final report of the
National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (9/11 Commission), TSA may
use the “larger set of watch lists maintained by the Federal government.” Therefore, pursuant to
49 U.S.C. § 114(f), which requires TSA to assess threats to transportation when warranted by
security considerations, TSA may use the full TSDB or other government databases, such as
intelligence or law enforcement databases. For example, TSA may obtain intelligence that
flights flying a particular route may be subject to an increased security risk. Under this
circumstance, TSA may decide to compare passenger information on some or all of the flights
flying that route against the full TSDB or other government databases.
        Based on the watchlist matching results produced by Secure Flight (using either the No
Fly and Selectee List or the full TSDB or other government databases when warranted by
security considerations), TSA will instruct an aircraft operator to process the individual in the
normal manner, to identify the individual for enhanced screening at a security checkpoint, or to
deny the individual transport or authorization to enter the airport sterile area.
        TSA also provides risk-based, intelligence-driven, scenario rules to CBP for use in ATS-
P to identify international travelers requiring enhanced screening. TSA receives a continuously
updated watchlist of these individuals from CBP for use in the Secure Flight program.15



United States if their visa applications are denied or revoked, if their ESTA applications are denied, or if their
passport number matches a lookout for a lost or stolen passport.
15
   Certain intelligence-driven scenario rules may result in some travelers receiving enhanced screening for
subsequent domestic and international flights for a period of time. See the previously published Secure Flight PIAs
for a complete understanding of TSA’s Secure Flight program: DHS/TSA/PIA-018(f) Secure Flight Program
Update PIA, available at http://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/privacy-pia-tsa-secure-flight-update-
09042013.pdf; DHS/TSA-019 Secure Flight Records SORN, 78 FR 55270 (September 10, 2013), available at
https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2013/09/10/2013-21980/privacy-act-of-1974-department-of-homeland-
security-transportation-security.
                                                                 Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                  U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                    ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                             Page 8


        CBP compares existing information on individuals and cargo entering and exiting the
country with patterns identified as requiring additional scrutiny in ATS. The patterns are based
on CBP officer experience, analysis of trends of suspicious activity, and raw intelligence
corroborating those trends. For example, ATS can compare information on travelers against a
set of scenario-based targeting rules that indicate a particular travel pattern is used by drug
smugglers. CBP can then send the person who meets such criteria to secondary inspection for
additional examination. Previously published ATS SORN and PIAs provide more information
about the ATS rules.
        TSA and CBP-generated rule hits on international travelers are displayed on the COP
dashboard with the implementation of Phase II of the COP program. Populating the COP
dashboard with TSA and CBP rule hits allows both components to have immediate operational
awareness of potential Inhibited Passenger travel or those who may require additional scrutiny,
and aligns with the COP program’s original purpose of improving information sharing by
displaying all Inhibited Passenger travel and others of potential concern to both components in a
single location.
       Uses of the Information
        Phase II continues the ability of TSA and CBP to use the records displayed on the COP
common dashboard for operational purposes related to cross-component information sharing of
identified threats and accurate air domain security threat assessments. The additional datasets
introduced in Phase II are only accessed by authorized ATS users with roles permitting them to
access this information and by authorized TSA users at TSA’s operations center. CBP and TSA
continue to use the COP for the following purposes:
       1. To ensure consistent vetting of and refine each component’s ability to positively
          identify individuals matched to the CDC DNBL or the No Fly and Selectee subsets of
          the TSDB who fly to, from, through, or over the United States, or on international
          flights that are operated by covered U.S. aircraft operators;
       2. To increase the operational awareness of both components concerning travelers who
          may require addition scrutiny prior to traveling or pose a risk to aircraft safety, U.S.
          interests, or to national security; and
       3. To allow TSA and CBP to coordinate responses.
        TSA provides CBP with the data elements listed above regarding travelers who are
confirmed watchlist matches on domestic flights and confirmed and possible matches on
international flights, and their travel companions in Phase II of the COP. CBP performs
comparison, rule, and federated query functions and identifies pertinent CBP-held information
on these travelers. CBP compares TSA’s list of confirmed watchlisted passengers with its own
list of confirmed watchlisted passengers for consistency and identifies enhancements to the
                                                                             Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                              U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                                ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                         Page 9


component’s respective systems and procedures. CBP determines situations in which
inconsistencies exist between positive matches to the watchlists of the respective components by
displaying confirmed matches to the watchlists of domestic travelers. These inconsistences may
be due to differences in algorithms run by the different systems or to differing matching
procedures. CBP or TSA adjusts its algorithms or provides additional training to ensure that all
confirmed watchlisted travelers are properly identified in the future if vetting inconsistencies are
identified.
        The COP dashboard alerts both components of any vetting discrepancies and allows both
components to determine that a traveler was misidentified, thus facilitating his or her travel. In
addition, possible matches are displayed for travelers on international flights operated by covered
U.S. aircraft operators. CBP leverages its holdings to try to further determine whether the
possible match is or is not a positive match to a watchlist in coordination with the appropriate
third agencies. This helps prevent DHS from inconveniencing travelers who are determined to
not be a match.
        CBP also performs comparison, rule, and federated query functions in ATS-P to provide
data about travelers whose visas are revoked, match a lookout for a lost or stolen passport, have
been denied an ESTA, or are positive hits of TSA or CBP-generated rules processed in ATS-P.
Once these travelers are identified in ATS-P their information is displayed on the COP to
provide both components with enhanced operational awareness of potential threats to aviation,
U.S. interests, and national security.
         Notice
        No additional notice is being provided aside from this PIA update to reflect Phase II of
the COP because no new information is collected from the public. However, CBP and TSA
improve the use of the information already collected in conformance with their existing
authorities and missions in Phase II of COP implementation.
         Data Retention by the Project
       CBP has concluded that the previously established retention periods for data residing in
the COP should be revised.16 CBP previously determined that confirmed matches to a watchlist
would be retained for 15 years to mirror the retention schedule for ATS. Records created about
persons associated with the match but determined not to be a threat would be destroyed within
seven days after the completion of the last leg of the individual’s directional travel itinerary, in
conformance with the Secure Flight SORN.17

16
   DHS/CBP/PIA-006(c) Automated Targeting System PIA Update - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture
Program, available at, http://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/privacy-pia-cbp-atsupdate-01312014.pdf.
17
   “Records relating to an individual determined by the automated matching process to be neither a match nor or
potential match to a watchlist will be destroyed within seven days after completion of the last leg of the individual’s
directional travel itinerary. Records relating to an individual determined by the automated matching process to be a
                                                                             Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                              U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                                ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                                        Page 10


         Retaining confirmed watchlist data for either domestic or international travelers is
unwarranted because this information is also retained in the TSDB. As a result, an individual’s
records are displayed on the COP dashboard for two hours after the completion of his or her
travel itinerary and purged completely within 72 hours.
        Records created about an individual associated with a confirmed or possible match to a
watchlist that require additional analysis in the ATS case management module ATS-Targeting
Framework (TF) will be retained for 15 and seven years respectively in ATS if the individual is
ultimately determined not to be a threat. However, COP information maintained only in ATS
that is linked to a specific case or investigation will remain accessible for the life of the law
enforcement matter to support that activity and other enforcement activities that may become
related. In addition, CBP may include information in TECS on individuals who may need
additional scrutiny and will abide by the TECS retention schedule.
        The justification for the revised retention period for COP records is based on both CBP
and TSA’s business needs to ensure accurate and consistent identification of Inhibited Passenger
travel while minimizing the information retained about legitimate travelers. This revision is
based on CBP’s historical encounters with suspected terrorists and other criminals, as well as the
broader expertise of the law enforcement and intelligence communities. For example, potential
terrorists may make multiple visits to the United States before performing an attack. It is over
the course of time and multiple visits that a potential risk becomes clear. Travel records
(including historical records), are essential to assist CBP officers with their risk-based
assessments of travel indicators and identifying potential links between known and previously
unidentified terrorist facilitators. Analyzing these records for these purposes allows CBP to
effectively identify suspect travel patterns and irregularities.
         Information Sharing
       There has been no change to information sharing in Phase II of the COP program. TSA
and CBP information is available to both components through the COP dashboard. However,
only authorized personnel at the CBP and TSA operations centers are able to view this
information for the purposes stated above.
         Redress



potential watch list match will be retained for seven years after the completion of the individual's directional travel
itinerary. Records relating to an individual determined to be a confirmed watchlist match will be retained for 99
years after the date of match confirmation. Lists of individuals stored in Secure Flight, such as individuals identified
as Known Travelers and individuals who have been disqualified from eligibility to receive expedited screening as a
result of their involvement in certain security incidents, will be deleted or destroyed when superseded by an updated
list.” See DHS/TSA-019 Secure Flight Records SORN, 78 FR 55270 (September 10, 2013), available at
https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2013/09/10/2013-21980/privacy-act-of-1974-department-of-homeland-
security-transportation-security.
                                                                  Privacy Impact Assessment Update
                                                                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection
                                                     ATS - TSA/CBP Common Operating Picture Phase II
                                                                                             Page 11


        The redress procedures for CBP and TSA have not changed with the implementation of
Phase II of the COP program. CBP and TSA are better able to resolve misidentified individuals
and prevent them from requiring any redress through the COP. Further, the Department of
Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP) is a single point of contact
for individuals seeking redress for difficulties they experienced during their travel screening and
inspection at transportation hubs—like airports and train stations—or crossing U.S. borders. For
more information, please visit the DHS TRIP website: http://www.dhs.gov/dhs-trip.
       Auditing and Accountability
        The auditing and accountability procedures have not changed in Phase II of the COP
program and continue to be the same procedures employed by ATS. All individuals with access
to the information described in this PIA are existing ATS-P users with a demonstrated need to
know the information displayed on the COP.


Responsible Official
       Laurence Castelli
       Privacy Officer
       U.S. Customs and Border Protection
       Department of Homeland Security


Approval Signature
       Original signed and on file at the DHS Privacy Office
       ________________________________
       Karen L. Neuman
       Chief Privacy Officer
       Department of Homeland Security
